Bachelor of Science in BiologyBachelor of Science in Biology
Get a Hands-On Perspective in Preparation for Multiple Career Paths
Biology is the study of life — from the simplest, one-celled organism to complex ecosystems. But that simple definition only hints at where the field can lead you. With a bachelor's degree in biology from Clarkson, you could pursue a career in healthcare, develop new drugs, protect vulnerable habitats, go on to teach or continue your education in graduate school.

Why Study Biology at Clarkson?
When you study the sciences at Clarkson, doing and learning go hand in hand.

You'll focus on the fundamental concepts of the field, building a foundation in health and biomedical science (human and animal), biotechnology and environmental science.

Through it all, you'll put the concepts you learn to work, both in the lab and Clarkson's rich natural surroundings. 

Those are research opportunities you'd typically find at a large university. The best part: we combine them with the small classes and personal attention from faculty that you find at a small college.

What You'll Learn
Your classes will give you an overview of the field while allowing the flexibility to focus on the topics that excite you the most — such as cellular and molecular biology, biotechnology or environmental biology.

If you're interested in the health sciences, the pre-health advising track can guide you to graduate work in veterinary science, medicine or physical or occupational therapy.

You'll take classes including:

Conservation Biology
Genetics
Medical Microbiology
Molecular and Genome Evolution
Pharmacology
Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine
Curriculum

















Co-ops and Internships

Undergraduate Research


Resources and Facilities


Clubs and Organizations


Biology Minor








Additional Minors



Big Opportunities, Close-Knit Department
"Because our Biology department is so intimate, it gives you incredible opportunities to research and advance in your field."

Kelsey Cullen '22, BS in Biology

Hear more from Kelsey and other students

Career Possibilities
A biology degree from Clarkson is flexible — it gives you the chance to explore multiple career paths while you seek your passion. And, many of those jobs are in demand. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, employers see a growing need for nurses, doctors, wildlife biologists, technicians and other specialists.

Some of the careers you can pursue include:

Biomedical researcher
Environmental scientist
Dentist
Physical or occupational therapist
Physician
Teacher or professor
Veterinarian
Wildlife biologist
Recent Employers
Graduates have started industry careers through:

Achievement First
Albany Medical Center
Banfield Pet Hospital
Beverly Hospital and Addison Gilbert Hospital, members of Beth Israel Lahey Health
Cornell University
Global Football Connect
Middlesex Hospital
NorDx
NYS Parks Recreation & Historic Preservation
Price Waterhouse Coopers
Procter & Gamble
Randstad Corporate Services
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Sandstone Care
Saratoga Hospital
Saratoga Veterinary Hospital
Striker
The Manor
Trudeau Institute
UVM Medical Center
WellNow Urgent Care
Graduate Schools
Biology majors have gone on to graduate work at institutions such as:

Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences
Bangor University
Case Western Reserve University
Cornell University
Pace University
SUNY Upstate Medical University
University of Minnesota - Twin Cities
The University of Texas at Austin
University of Vermont
University of Wisconsin - Madison
Get a Head Start on Your Healthcare Career
If you're interested in becoming a physical therapist (PT), occupational therapist (OT) or physician assistant (PA), our Direct Entry Healthcare program can make it easier to reach your goal.

After completing your BS in Biology, you'll jump right into a master's or doctorate degree program in your chosen field at Clarkson.

You won't need to complete a second application — as long as you keep up your grades and satisfy other requirements, Direct Entry participants get a guaranteed spot in one of these programs:

Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT)
MS in Occupational Therapy (MS-OT)
MS in Physician Assistant Studies (MS-PA)
Request Info
 
Apply Now

Contact Us 
Department of Biology
Email: biology@clarkson.edu
Phone: 315-268-2342

Interested in learning more about the Bachelor of Science in Biology? Contact the Department today with your questions.

Image
2023 Undergrad University Placement Rate
Explore Related Programs
Tubes and scientist with dropper representing Biomolecular-Science program at Clarkson
BS in Biomolecular Science
Fields with water cylinders representing Environmental-Engineering program at Clarkson
BS in Environmental Engineering
Trees and greenery on top of a city building representing Environmental-Health-Science program at Clarkson
BS in Environmental Health Science
Take the Next Step
A biology degree from Clarkson opens the door to careers in medicine, environmental science and many other fields. Find out more today.

Request Info
Visit
Apply Now
Clarkson University
University Libraries
News & Events
Academic Calendar
Human Resources
Sustainability
Book Store
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Intranet
Organizational Chart
Potsdam Campus  
8 Clarkson Ave 
Potsdam, NY 13699  
Phone: 315-268-6400

Capital Region Campus  
80 Nott Terrace 
Schenectady, NY 12308  
Phone: 518-631-9831

Beacon Campus  
199 Dennings Ave  
Beacon, NY 12508  
Phone: 845-838-1600

Contact Us

© Copyright 2023 Clarkson University
CARES Act Report & Consumer Information Disclosure (HEOA)
Act on Legal & Moral Concerns
Web Accessibility Assistance
facebook
twitter
Instagram
Youtube