Bachelor of Science in MathematicsBachelor of Science in Mathematics
Unlock the Possibilities of Mathematics
Mathematics is a powerful tool — and one with more uses than you may imagine. It's found where you'd expect, in disciplines like engineering and computer science. But, it can also help epidemiologists understand the spread of disease or give medical researchers clues about how tumors grow. Clarkson's math majors are using their skills to work on problems in improving hospital operations, in social justice, in supply chain management, in building submarines and in, well, just about everything!

Why Study Mathematics at Clarkson?
Please don't be confused: the number one reason to study math is ... because you love it. You know you do. Why? Because it challenges you to be a creative problem solver and a critical thinker. And guess what? Those skills are exceptionally valued out in the real world.

Here at Clarkson, you'll find yourself embedded with other folks working on real-world problems. We help you to find your passion and team your critical thinking skills with their hands-on experience to accomplish the incredible.

And, our Mathematics Class of 2023 had a 100 percent placement rate.

What You'll Learn
Our program emphasizes applied mathematics. All your classes will be taught exclusively by faculty.

Available courses include:

3-D Space and Projective Geometry
Abstract Algebra
Automata Theory and Formal Languages
Calculus I, II and III
Computer Algorithms
Cryptography
Differential Equations
Discrete Mathematics and Proof
Intro to STEM Math
Mathematical Modeling
Mathematical Statistics
Number Theory and Its Applications
Curriculum






















Co-ops and Internships

Undergraduate Research

Clubs and Organizations


Mathematics Minor














Relevant Minors


Get Your Feet Wet
When biologists needed to determine how quickly an invasive plant was likely to spread in a river near campus, they turned to mathematics — and Kyle Monette '22 — for the answer.

See Why Math Is So Versatile

Career Possibilities
Math is a "Swiss Army Knife." In recent years, graduates of Clarkson's math program have gone to work as problem solvers in industry and government as mathematicians, statisticians and actuaries.

You won't have to look hard: according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, demand for mathematicians and statisticians is expected to grow 31 percent by 2031.

But in industry or academia, your job title probably won't be "statistician" or "mathematician." Industry simply needs people with good quantitative and problem-solving skills. And, the easiest way for a company to acquire that capacity is to hire a math major, regardless of whether they are hiring them into their supply chain branch, quality control or data analytics.

Some common jobs might include:

Actuary
Analyst
Cryptographer
Customer Technical Rep
Data scientist
Math teacher or professor
Quantitative analyst (finance)
Software engineer
Systems Engineer
Recent Employers and Graduate Programs
Clarkson students are in demand by private industry, though many choose to go on to graduate programs. In recent years, our students have pursued the next step with:

BAE Systems
Booz Allen Hamilton
Clarkson University (MS and PhD programs)
Cornell University
Country Living Loans
Dev10 (by Genesis10)
Epic
General Dynamics Electric Boat
General Electric
Google
Harris Corporation
Miller Institute for Basic Research in Science
mthree
Old Forge Electric
Progressive Corporation
Raytheon Missiles & Defense
St. Lawrence Health
Request Info
 
Apply Now

Contact Us
Mathematics Department
Email: math@clarkson.edu
Phone: 315-268-2395

Want to know more about the mathematics program or what you can expect once you're here? Let us know. 

Image
100 Percent Placement Undergrad - Program Specific
Super Power
When you need a mega-dose of computing power to solve complex problems, turn to ACRES — our high-performance computing cluster. Short for Accelerating Computational Research for Engineering and Science, ACRES delivers 160 teraflops of solving speed.

Learn More About ACRES

Explore Related Programs
Equation on blackboard representing Applied Mathematics and Statistics program at Clarkson
BS in Applied Mathematics and Statistics
Person holding iPad with graphs representing Business Intelligence & Data Analytics program at Clarkson
BS in Business Analytics
Person sitting at desk with monitors working on coding representing Computer Science program at Clarkson
BS in Computer Science
It All Adds Up
See how a BS in Mathematics from Clarkson can help you get where you want to go. Contact us today to find out more. 

Request Info
Visit
Apply Now
Clarkson University
University Libraries
News & Events
Academic Calendar
Human Resources
Sustainability
Book Store
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Intranet
Organizational Chart
Potsdam Campus  
8 Clarkson Ave 
Potsdam, NY 13699  
Phone: 315-268-6400

Capital Region Campus  
80 Nott Terrace 
Schenectady, NY 12308  
Phone: 518-631-9831

Beacon Campus  
199 Dennings Ave  
Beacon, NY 12508  
Phone: 845-838-1600

Contact Us

© Copyright 2023 Clarkson University
CARES Act Report & Consumer Information Disclosure (HEOA)
Act on Legal & Moral Concerns
Web Accessibility Assistance
facebook
twitter
Instagram
Youtube